docker

Some advanced questions on docker asked to me in interviews:
How to run multiple docker compose on same machine
What is build context
What is run context
Flow of request when you type docker commands
How to connect to different daemons on demand through same docker client
Env vs Build arguments
How to pass arguments to containers which do not get persisted in the containter after build stage
How env is different than arg 
What is —build-arg 
What are docker buildx
What is scratch image
What is distroless image
How do you mount a docker secret
Restart policy in docker

docker repo is an image with a specified tag, registry- col'n of repos

docker logs of a container: docker container logs <container name>
-> filter: docker container logs  --tail 200 <container name>

if container deleted => logs will be lost(as cont is stateless)- to persist use external block storage
if it's stopped, restarted => logs will not be removed

if docker image is bigger:
-> build time will be longer
-> image download error or api rate limit
-> application becomes bulkier

Soln: Use alpine images, prefer multi-stage dockerfiles, lock package versions (so that unnecessary things won't be downloaded), remove package binaries after installation, and don't install packages that are not required.

each layer is an image by itself
each line in dockerfile is a layer => combine these and we get Docker image
- usually cached so everything is not built the next time Dockerfile is run

cmd(not fixed) and entrypoint(fixed, cant be mod) can be used to run default Linux cmds during container build time.

alpine: lightweight, only req packages present
from node:12-alpine - alpine image
from node - pulls latest image

Docker events:
It streams low-level, real-time event logs from the Docker daemon; not just your container.

Imagine this:
Your container is restarting in PROD.
But it works on your machine.

your usual debugging ritual:
👉 docker logs → nothing
👉 docker inspect → static
👉 docker exec → can't connect before it dies

Now try this instead:
docker events --filter container=<your_container_id>

Output:
2025-05-04T18:20:01Z container create ...
2025-05-04T18:20:02Z container start ...
2025-05-04T18:20:03Z container health_status: unhealthy ...
2025-05-04T18:20:04Z container kill signal=SIGTERM
2025-05-04T18:20:04Z container restart

👉And boom.
Healthcheck failed → container killed → Docker auto-restarted it.
And your app logs?
They don’t show that. Because the healthcheck is outside your main process.

Bonus tips:
- Scope timeframes:
docker events --since 30m --until "2025-05-04T18:00:00"
- Want structured output?
docker events --format '{{json .}}'
- Need a full system timeline during an outage? Just remove the filter:
docker events

You should use Grafana, Loki, Prometheus for observability? You can't debug:
- OOM kills before metrics are scraped
- Missed volume mounts
- Broken init containers
- Sidecars that silently crash and restart

docker events sees it all. In real time.
